Fast Company's Top 10 lists recognize pioneering companies across 36 categories, from artificial intelligence to wellness. More than three dozen Fast Company editors, reporters, and contributors surveyed thousands of companies to create these lists. The ranking recognizes companies that exemplify the best in business and innovation in their respective fields.

Two young companies from Switzerland made it to this year’s Top 10.

SpacePharma, Delemont
SpacePharma ranks second in the Space category. The scale-up developed a system for affordable microgravity research in outer space. Microgravity provides companies and researchers with the ability to accelerate discovery processes for new drugs and vaccines, develop new crystals and materials and accelerate the study of human genome and origin of diseases. SpacePharma has developed end-to-end miniaturized lab systems provided with sensors and readers, capable of working on different microgravity platforms and assists its customers in all phases of performing experiments in microgravity, including experiment planning, preparation, execution in microgravity and result analysis.

SOPHiA Genetics, Lausanne
SOPHiA GENETICS, global leader in Data-Driven Medicine, has been ranked 5th in Fast Company’s Top 10 Most Innovative Companies in Biotech. AI platform helps clinicians effectively diagnose and treat their patients. The company’s Artificial Intelligence, SOPHiA, solves the complexity of genomic data analysis by accurately detecting disease-causing mutations in 5 areas: hereditary cancer, oncology, cardiology, metabolism and pediatrics. To date, SOPHiA has been deployed across over 400 hospitals in 55 countries and has helped to better diagnose over 177’000 patients worldwide.

(Stefan Kyora)
